The current severe economic downturn in America affects people on every level. Rising fuel costs have impacted everything from the price of groceries to the cost of getting to work everyday. Due to this economy issue, there are the changes in the way people spend their leisure time. There are media reports that tell about the trend away from vacations and toward staycations, where people stay at home instead of travelling. At the same time, theres a significant trend toward finding recreational activities. They are called crafts for kids, quilting, and gardening.

Parents and grandparents are always on the lookout for kids craft projects that will engage children and keep those little hands busy. Thankfully there are many inexpensive books that are filled with ideas. For example, you can find books that outline crafts using play dough, how to make flower figures, and even Christmas crafts. In fact, you can even find books that provide ideas for making Christmas gifts that fit in a jar. From crafts for preschool age children to pastimes tor older kids these idea books provide a wealth of options for engaging childrens imaginations.

As for adults, two trends are emerging. Knitting and sewing were popular during the past decade. The latest pastime appreciated by American adults is quilting. Hobbyists are bringing it back tî lite and enjoying the detail and craft involved in making a quilt. There is a wealth of helpful new books on quilting projects, including how-to books, quilting patterns, and quilting designs.

The other emerging trend for adults is gardening. People spend so much time at home. They find gardening a great way of relaxation and getting a sense of satisfaction.

The recent interest in crafts in America is not only a matter of economics. Its also a reflection of peoples new environmental sensibilities. The concepts of reduce, reuse, and recycle are the cornerstone of crafting. Pieces of fabric can be put together to make gorgeous quilting designs, and some types of waste can be composted and used as fertilizer in gardening. In this respect, Americans will say: Save money and save the planet. Its a winning combination!
Are you interested in the behaviour of people and animals? If you are, then you might enjoy the study of psychology. Psychology is the study of behaviour, but this is a very large area of study. There are several different branches of psychology, each of which studies a different aspect of behaviour.

 

Social psychologists study interactions among people. For example, a social psychologist might try to learn about the situations that cause people to behave aggressively. Another question studied by social psychologists is why certain people become attracted to each other. One of the interesting problems in social psychology is conformity: what causes people to behave in the same way, and to follow what others do and say?

 

Cognitive psychologists study thinking, memory, and language. One problem studied by cognitive psychologists is how people remember numbers. For example, what is the best way to memorize some numbers? Is it better to repeat the numbers to oneself, or to try to attach some meaning to these numbers? A cognitive psychologist might also study language. For example, why can young children learn a second language so quickly and easily? Cognitive psychologists are also interested in the ways that people learn to solve problems, such as finding a new place.

 

Clinical psychologists study mental illnesses. For example, a clinical psychologist might try to find out the causes of depression and to figure out ways of helping people who are depressed. Other clinical psychologists might study the behaviour of people who suffer from addiction to drugs, so that this problem can be prevented and treated. Another topic of interest to clinical psychologists is violent behaviour. It is very important to find ways of preventing violence and to change the behaviour of persons who act violently.

 

Some psychologists are interested in the measurement of psychological characteristics. For example, psychologists might develop tests to assess a person’s intelligence, personality traits, or interests. These tests can be used to help people make decisions about education, occupation, and clinical treatment.

 

Psychologists who study the behaviour of animals are called ethologists. Ethologists often go into wilderness areas to watch the activity of birds, fish, or other animals. These psychologists try to figure out why it is that some animals have “instincts” for various behaviours such as parenting, mating, or fighting. Some ethologists have learned very much about the unusual behaviours observed in many animals.

 

These are only a few of the many areas of psychology. Truly, psychology is one of the most interesting areas of knowledge!

 